[Music]
australia's qriket selectors have been
presented with another headache
australian test hopeful cameron green is
in doubt for next week's test against
india after a concussion scared during
australia a's to a match against india
at the scg the young west australian was
bowling to indian talent at jaspreet
boomra when he was struck in the face
the oranda was able to walk from the
field but was substituted and taken from
the ground for three months australia
was dismissed for 108 in the first
innings on the opening day finishing 86
runs behind the tourist total of 194
the melbourne stars easter victory in
their big bash league opener overnights
the stars were too strong for the
brisbane heat winning by six wickets in
canberra set into bat the heat would
dismiss for just 125 in the 20th over
with nathan called the nile starring
with four wickets the stars chased down
the target with more than two overs to
spare we skipper glenn maxwell top
scoring with 46 runs from just 26
deliveries melbourne has no time to
celebrate as they take on the sydney
thunder today
practices wrapped up at the abu dhabi
grand frey valtteri vatribotas was the
fastest in the final practice session of
the day bottas finished just ahead of
his mercedes teammate lewis hamilton who
was returning to the track after
contracting coronavirus max verstappen
was third fastest with australia's
daniel ricardo coming in 9th kimi
raikkonen walked away unharmed after his
engine caught on fire late in the
session earlier in the day michael
schumacher's son mick schumacher took
part in his maiden formula 1 session
coming in 18th fastest for us west ham
have fought back from a goal down to
defeat leeds united 2-1 in the premier
league this morning the hammers gave
away an early penalty just six minutes
into the match the visitors saved the
initial attempt but the goalkeeper
didn't have a foot on the goal line so
leads were awarded a second attempt by
the var which they converted west ham
then quickly levelled the score through
thomas socheck angelo ogbonna then
scored the winner in the 80th minute to
move west ham up to fifth on the ladder
there were no surprises in the wnbl last
night the townsville fire boosted its
finals hopes with the 95 to 66 victory
of the adelaide lightning lauren
nicholson top scored for the fire with
21 points as they maintained fourth spot
while the lightning remained in fifth
three wins behind the melbourne boomers
remain on track for a top two spot after
they down the winless bendigo spirit
91-70 stella beck starred with 17 points
as the boom has kept in contact with the
south side flies in canberra capitals at
the top of the ladder
australian boxing's rising star brock
jarvis asserted his dominance last night
with an impressive fifth round knockout
victory over mark schliems in canberra
charles who is trained by hall of famer
jeff fennick is undefeated after 18
fights the 23 year old pulled on the
punches from close range and kept
schliebes against the ropes for the
majority of the fight the victory saw
jarvis claim the ibf pan pacific and wbo
global featherweight belts
japanese golfer hanako shibuno leads the
second round of the women's pga
tournament in texas the 22 year old sits
at seven under par three strokes clear
of sweden's lynn grants a group of three
american golfers trail grant on three
under australia's gabriella ruffles is
the best-placed australian she's eight
strokes off the pace after hitting a one
over par round of 72.
on the satellite image a low pressure
system over central wa is causing strong
winds heavy rain and storms multiple
troughs are triggering rain and storms
in other parts of wa the nt queensland
northeastern new south wales and western
south australia a high is keeping
western new south wales victoria and
tasmania mostly dry
looking around the country for today
showers across queensland a hot day for
the state's east even hotter in the west
for new south wales in the act
showers in the east mostly sunny clear
day for the state's west windy on the
alps
sunny warm day for most of victoria
cloudy in the northwest a warm day for
southwestern tasmania clearing fog in
the southeast and a cool sunny day for
the north
hot but cloudy for southeast and central
south australia showers and storms for
the west windy and hot in the north a
mostly sunny and warm day for southern
wa wind easing in the northwest a hot
day with showers and storms in the
state's northeast
hot day for the nt showers and storms in
the north west and interior isolated
showers and mild conditions in the south
now to tomorrow's forecast for the
capitals heavy rain brisbane possible
showers for sydney and perth cloudy day
for canberra warm mostly sunny for
melbourne hobart and adelaide a possible
storm for darwin
and that is the latest from abc news i'm
miriam corower thank you for coming
[Music]
[Applause]
dear humans
we need to talk
there's pollution in my air and plastic
in my oceans my trees and animals are
disappearing and my temperature is
rising my climate is changing i think i
can fix it but i can't fix it on my own
small changes can have a big impact and
right now we need to take care of each
other signed your planet
a season of stories exploring our
environment your planet on abc
all right so let's all please bring our
a game
we're actually looking at the site of
one of the greatest crimes of humanity
depending on what character i'm doing it
makes me more brave
i've always enjoyed people who have
beliefs that they're certain about real
sincere belief is like rocket fuel
[Music]
that was unexpected it's more than just
comedy abc tv plus starts january 1.
2020 is almost over and what a year it's
been costa lends a hand to a very
special gardener if i hadn't had the
garden maybe i wouldn't have lived or a
hundred get crafty this christmas kids
will love making them and it's a great
activity for family and friends and look
at these luscious lockdown gardens it's
just so rewarding having the ability to
watch life and nature just grow around
you gardening australia friday on abc
and iview
when you strip away the cultural
non-inclusiveness of christmas
what are we left with a
non-denominational pagan special all
washed out under the shade of a cooler
bar cask mad as hell pagan holiday
special sunday december 20 abc and eye
view
trade tensions mount with china as the
wine and beef industries face another
blow
[Music]
also ahead rio tinto slammed for
destroying ancient rock shelters and
could be ordered to pay hundreds of
millions of dollars in compensation
and an indigenous teenager from regional
victoria tops the class of 2020 in the
afl draft
hello and welcome to abc regional news
i'm miriam corawa with a closer look at
what's making headlines in regional and
rural australia
the trade sanctions keep coming for
australian exporter selling products to
china another round of tariffs on
australian wine and more red meat and
timber has been blocked national rural
reporter kath sullivan has been
following development since she joins us
now kath just where are we at now with
these sanctions
well just over the past few days miriam
we've seen
one more queensland abattoir join the
list of those exporters unable to sell
meat into china and learned that two
victorian abattoirs which voluntarily
suspended their sales with china in july
have are still waiting to resume the
trade that's despite
no coronavirus detections in victoria
for some time now and it is worth
pointing out that uh both the jbs
abattoir brooklyn and the australian
lamb company at kolak made that uh
decision to de-list because staff at
those plants had been infected with the
coronavirus something we saw happen
around the world but the meat industry
says other abattoirs have been able to
resume the trade much sooner than these
victorian meat works you also mentioned
there the wine another tariff of six
percent uh applying to australian wine
this time over claims that australian
winemakers were subsidised by the
government and on the timber front two
more states south australia and tasmania
have been blocked from exporting whole
logs to china they joined queensland and
victoria which was suspended from
trading a little bit earlier
so the national farmers federation cap
has called on the government to refer
china to the independent umpire the
world trade organization has australia
done that before
we certainly haven't done it over an
agricultural commodity since signing up
to the free trade agreement with china
in 2015 but given that china announced
uh bali tariffs on
australian bali back in may uh wiping
out a trade that is sometimes worth more
than a billion dollars to australian
grain growers largely dependent on the
seasons um
now the australian government and the
industry have done its best to appeal
these tariffs through china's domestic
processes but they've exhausted all
options there and basically if they want
to
take the fight any further the wto is
the place to go and we expect to hear
more from the australian government on
that shortly and what else has the
government been saying in response to
all these issues
well when i speak with exporters and
farmers they tend to be very divided
in their opinions about how the
government has handled the trade
relationship with china over the past
few months and i caught up with the
agriculture minister david littleproud
this week and i actually asked him how
many calls he was receiving from uh
disgruntled customers i suppose you
could say
suggesting that the government had
mismanaged their relationship with china
i haven't had any of those calls the
reality is i think most australian
producers and exporters understand what
is happening here and i think there's
mounting evidence to suggest that this
isn't about technical trade issues this
is more about other sovereign matters
that china have with us and we won't we
won't compromise on that and miriam just
on um where farmers are at at the moment
i actually also got to put a question to
the minister asking him if the
government was considering providing any
sort of financial assistance for
exporters we heard from the meat
industry council this week that that
trade alone expects it's lost hundreds
of millions of dollars worth of trade
since these sanctions first began in may
and i wondered whether the government
was prepared to
perhaps fill some of the the hole that
china has left in the marketplace again
here's dave a little proud of what he
had to say
we cannot subsidise or directly
compensate farmers uh for trade issues
that would be in breach of of the wto
rules that we signed up to we're we're a
fair we're a rules-based trading nation
and we expect everyone to sit within
that we won't be compensating any
farmers for a market that's been lost we
expect them uh to work with us and we'll
work with them and that's why we've made
significant investments in trying to to
get into other markets and we're in fact
negotiating now the eu and uk free trade
agreement
so kath where does this leave farmers
well with a big hole in their wallet
we've heard from a lot of growers who
are desperately seeking to find new
markets it's a lot easier said than done
particularly when you talk about
commodities that are perishable like in
the seafood trade but um while they will
be divided opinion about whether or not
an appeal to the wto will help their
cause or not it's likely that such a
case would take years to be heard and so
in the immediate term it's not really a
great um a great comfort to those who
are seeking to to find new markets
our national rural reporter can sullivan
there in canberra
thanks marion
rio tinto could face a multi-million
dollar compensation claim by traditional
land owners for destroying sacred rock
shelters in wa's pilbara region a
parliamentary committee has recommended
the mining giant pay restitution for
demolishing the jorgan caves the
national native title council says that
could amount to 250 million dollars
46 000 years of history blown up for the
expansion of an iron ore mine a scathing
parliamentary committee interim report
into rio tinto's destruction of the
gorge caves says rio tinto had four
options to expand its mine it chose the
only one that would destroy the shelters
rio tinto's role in this tragedy is
inexcusable rio knew the value of what
they were destroying but blew it up
anyway
never again
can we allow the destruction
the devastation
and the vandalism of cultural sites the
committee made seven recommendations top
of the list for rio to repay traditional
owners and restore the caves rio wanted
access to 135 million dollars worth of
iron ore at the site national native
title council head jamie lowe says any
compensation must also take into account
cultural loss it would be double so
we're heading up towards
250 million the report also recommends a
temporary moratorium on applications to
legally destroy indigenous sites unless
there's clear consent from landowners wa
aboriginal affairs minister and
treasurer ben wyatt says that's not
practical a blunt instrument like a
blanket moratorium is just simply going
to
create more havoc than protect sites rio
tinto declined an interview but released
a statement saying it's committed to
ensuring the destruction of heritage
sites never occurs again
in its response the pkkp people say rio
tinto now needs to turn its words into
actions the inquiry's final findings
will be handed down next year evelyn
manfield abc news perth
the new south wales premier has turned
her attention to an old water management
issue in western new south wales gladys
barrajiglian was in menindee this week
to release 60 000 murray cod into the
darling river early last year menindee
was struck by mass fish kills caused by
lack of oxygen in the river i hope today
demonstrates
how committed we are
but as has been highlighted it's not
just about releasing the wonderful fish
stock back into the system the water
system here but it's also about ensuring
the water system thrives and survives
the premier defended the timing of her
trip having not visited the region two
years ago as the disaster was unfolding
a man who survived a shark attack off
kangaroo island has described the attack
as like being hit by a truck the 29 year
old surfer was bitten in destroys bay
suffering injuries to his thigh
buttercanned arm he released a statement
thanking everyone who helped get him to
hospital and says he's confident of
making a full recovery he raised the
alarm with a fellow surfer who drove him
towards king's kit and was met halfway
by paramedic michael rushby the patient
told us that he'd actually swamped a
shore by himself
and then walked around about 300 metres
to the car park to get help
and what i can say is with the extent of
his injuries that's quite remarkable
the man was flown to flinders medical
center for ongoing treatment
it's been revealed a two-year-old who
drowned in a public swimming pool in
central australia last week was in the
care of a child care program at the time
the total was found unresponsive in the
pool in the community of kintore about
530 kilometers west of alice springs
it's been revealed that the two-year-old
was in the care of the mcdonnell
regional council early learning program
a spokesperson for the organization
confirmed the program has now stopped
operating excursions and all three pools
operated by the mcdonnell regional
council have closed until further notice
with dangerous fires already threatening
communities this summer the federal
government is rolling out satellites
with wi-fi to help people stay connected
in last summer's deadly bushfire season
tens of thousands of australians lost
mobile coverage when the power went out
while these options provide bubbles of
satellite wi-fi they don't solve the
major mobile black spot problems
communities have faced we're here at
nemaji national park just outside of
canberra which was severely impacted by
the black summer fires and just behind
me through these trees is the visitors
center which also acts as an evacuation
point for people who live in the
surrounding area here it's the first
place to get a satellite installed that
will help people get access to wi-fi
during a bushfire even when they don't
have mobile telecommunications
this is part of a big spend by the
federal government of about 37 million
dollars towards dealing with better
connectivity for people dealing with
natural disasters particularly bushfires
cyclones and floods it can't be
understated how important good
communications in rural environments and
remote environments
can be
when you're moving people around when
you're under the threat of fire and fast
moving fires one of the other things the
government is announcing is on the other
side of me
it's this truck which drives in
to an evacuation point or somewhere
where a natural disaster has occurred
you can get wi-fi connection within 20
meters of the truck apparently dozens of
people at once can access mobile wi-fi
at that point to get a message out if
they need to tell people that they're
all right
and they don't have access to mobile
telecommunications
we'll end up with a fleet of 15 of them
with the new ones being added positioned
around the country to be able to move
very quickly into a disaster situation
they can provide connectivity
for
members of the community citizens who've
been affected by natural disaster but
what they can also do is provide
connectivity to
emergency services the government's been
under pressure to spend this money and
really we're only seeing the details of
this money now well into the next fire
season there have been members of the
government's own front bench who have
been pushing for this money to be spent
more quickly
labor is also criticizing the government
for failing to spend tens of millions of
dollars in extra mitigation funding
that's broader money which has been
budgeted for but which the government
says it doesn't need to spend at this
point it's quite frankly inexplicable
that of that fund 200 million dollars
available each financial year so 400
million dollars has been available up to
this point not a single dollar of that
has been spent labor says there are
projects all over the country that could
have better prepared communities for
this fire season
on top of the boost to emergency
communication the federal government is
stepping up its efforts to improve
services for regions including a new
regional tech hub looking at everything
from troubleshooting connection problems
to helping people set up their internet
for business education and health the
hub will provide free and independent
support to tell us more we're speaking
to the regional tech hub manager jenna
whittison welcome to regional news jenna
the hub has just launched this week
there must be a lot of work involved in
getting it up and running what are some
of the key tasks for the hub at this
point
yeah absolutely thanks for having me on
um it's been a massive job to get the
hub up and running
one of the main issues that we're
working on at the moment
is actually getting people in rural and
remote areas connected to the internet
we're finding a lot of issues where
people in rural areas don't actually
know what connection types are available
to them
and in some cases they think that there
isn't a connection available to them
when that's actually not the case so
we're able to work really closely with
them
to analyze their exact location
and assess that along with their
internet connection needs and actually
provide a set of recommendations to them
around
different technology solutions for them
jenna just how challenging is it for
people in regional areas to get the kind
of support that this hub is now offering
yeah look i think it's been a huge
challenge and i can draw on my own
personal experience here having moved
back from
the city last year back into the country
and experiencing my own connection
issues
not only that i set up my own business
and worked really closely with a number
of local regionally based businesses who
all
struggled with connectivity so i think
traditionally it has been quite
difficult for people to access this
information
and i think a service like this is very
much needed the the volume of
information out there is completely
overwhelming and quite daunting for many
people so having a one-stop shop like
this for independent and free advice i
think is definitely a service that is
needed
and jenna how important is it for our
regions to have better connectivity
given the sorts of issues that we've
been facing in recent times with natural
disasters and the pandemic
yeah i think it's extremely important i
think people need to remember it's just
as important
for regional people to have the same
connectivity as those living in the city
um
people in small regions and country
towns are doing the same things you know
we're operating businesses
um
children's education
and online learning
access to healthcare and also the mental
and social wellbeing aspect of being
connected so i think it's extremely
important i think there's you know
there's a lot happening in this space at
the moment this is just one initiative
but we're definitely heading in the
right direction
jenna whitterson the manager of regional
tech hub you have a big job ahead of you
we thank you so much for taking the time
to speak to us and good luck with
getting everyone connected
thank you so much
the days of cheaper rental properties in
regional tasmania appear to be over
rents have soared recently and real
estate experts warn they're here to stay
beck brown never thought he would come
to this but she and her four kids are
moving into her dad's men cave just in
time for christmas the kids will
probably be in their swags in this area
her family is caught in the midst of the
acute regional rental crisis whereby
properties are scarce and go for around
four hundred dollars per week they've
gone up by hundreds of dollars not just
10 20
it's not that she can't pay there just
aren't any suitable rentals available in
the hewen valley area south of hobart
forcing hers to inhabit her parents [__]
until no idea
none whatsoever experts say relatively
cheap regional rental properties are no
longer since the start of the pandemic
prices have gone up in all states with
western australia tasmania and northern
territory recording the highest spikes
in some parts of regional tasmania
prices have increased by 30 percent
since 2016. the acute housing crisis in
hobart is now extending to the regions
with no reprieve in sight the property
market the way that it currently is
will
is here to stay i think people who are
sitting back waiting for a drop in
prices it's not going to occur part of
the problem is the regional housing
supply has been outstripped by demand
and exacerbated further by an influx of
sea changes the chesters moves to the
hewen valley from adelaide when the
initial lockdown restriction starts to
lift
with only two suitable houses on the
market they felt the pressure to take
one for a higher than expected price to
find out it was 475 was a bit of a shock
for the budget they don't like their
chances of finding another rental and
want to buy a place before the lease
runs out
and if not we might have to move back to
the mainland like everyone else
katriovill abc news
the trained human eye is pretty good at
finding skin spots that could be
cancerous but even the best doctors
can't come close to the skills of
artificial intelligence or ai north
queensland which has some of the highest
uv ratings in the world is a trial site
for new technology that could save
countless australian lives by
identifying tiny cancers the naked eye
would never pick up
landing in south australia last weekend
has arrived safely back in tokyo the
capsule believed to be carrying the
first ever subsurface sample of an
asteroid was carefully loaded onto a
charter flight from warmura initial
tests on the capsule have proven
inconclusive but scientists in japan
will check its contents in a vacuum seal
they say it's in perfect condition and
hopefully will provide clues about the
origin of the solar system and even life
on our planet
[Applause]
the afl journeys of the most talented
crop of young footballers has just begun
after clubs took their annual gamble in
the draft the pointy end of the evening
largely followed the script with
indigenous teenager jamara yugelhagen
taking number one
the class of 2020 emerges the brightest
pupil in the middle tomorrow you're
still pinching yourself
yeah still nervous i don't know why with
his family by his side jamariugl hagen
didn't have to wait long to hear his
name called out with pick one of the nab
afl draft jamara hugelhagen hailing from
the small indigenous community of
framlingham in south west victoria hugel
hagan becomes the first indigenous
player to be picked at number one since
des headland in 1998. been an indigenous
boy coming up i want my little brothers
to come through this as clubs took part
remotely in a virtual draft for the
first time fans were invited into the
family homes of the new recruits
[Applause]
nicholas cox from the northern knights
probably saved from the reaction of my
family it means so much to me and them
too they've been there for everything i
have to go the knock there was even a
visit from a club legend hello
hey
brent harvey's famous number 29 revived
by will phillips i didn't even know how
much he was connected to the club apart
from having played 400 games there
on eagle hagen's shoulders is a weight
of expectation not just as the number
one pick but in his playing resemblance
to a champion of the game
the comparisons don't come much bigger
than lance buddy franklin and while
jamari hugo hagan says he models his
game on the sydney star he says
ultimately the comparisons are just
words
i've got all the doggy boys if they
always message me throughout the year
they'll message me to see if i'm alright
with all this talk and stuff it was a
family affair at tigerland maurice rioli
jr picked under the father son rule to
follow in the footsteps of the late
maurice rioli senior and his cousin
daniel
meanwhile as expected the afl will
revert back to 20 minute quarters next
year the first six rounds of the fixture
will be released this month tom maddox
abc news melbourne
[Applause]
as we shift from heatwave to flooding
rainfall i think we're going to see a
lot more dams doing this overflowing as
we move through the coming week we've
still got to get some good rainfall into
the inland parts of drought affected
queensland this system may not be enough
to cause dams to overflow but we are
looking at substantial rain and at least
it is a beginning now we are expecting
to see some further heavy falls around
parts of the northwest of western
australia this all started with a
tropical low that pushed across the
kimberley and then we saw another low
moving in behind it that pushed across
the pilbara region now this brought
flooding rain through the northern and
central parts of western australia down
into border areas of south australia and
the northern territory but as we move
through next week it will refocus itself
up across the far northern parts of the
continent with widespread showers and
thunderstorms and the potential of
locally heavy falls if you're in the
eastern states though you're not going
to miss out we have a couple of systems
set to develop
onshore wind flow over the weekend is
going to combine to
see a trough deepen about the southeast
of queensland by round about sunday
night monday heavy rainfall developing
about the southeast of queensland
pushing back down the coast of new south
wales as we move through the week and
there are going to be some localized
heavy falls in association with this
potentially with flash flooding and also
the possibility of some riverine
flooding
this is the potential of a tropical
cyclone forming in the
south pacific we are looking at this
system remaining relatively stationary
across this region but it is a sign that
we are starting to see that area
becoming very active once again but this
is the rainfall figures over the eight
day period new south wales really does
become a focus for the heaviest of the
falls as we move through next week and
we will start to see that rain pushing
further down the coast as we move
towards the middle and end of the week
but we've also got some strong winds out
over the ocean and these are going to
bring some big swell along the coastal
fringe of the east coast
again this is also in part due to that
deeply low and possible cyclone and a
high pressure system near new zealand so
because it's got such a long fetch we
will start to see those swells
increasing quite significantly through
the week about the east coast also some
strong winds bringing some big swells
around the southwest of western
australia but we are finally starting to
see that shift from heatwave conditions
to heavier rainfall and this is really
just the beginning of the la nina summer
and before we go at this time of year we
often see the best in people as those
who get their kicks from spreading joy
shine during the christmas season
kalgoorlie couple phillip and loretta
woods are among those who shine along
with their house which they decorate
every year
for the past 17 years philip and loretta
woods have turned their home into a
christmas wonderland they spend up to
four thousand dollars on decorations and
hand out about three thousand candy
canes
but there's something else that makes
this display unique
we've only missed out twice
and that was when i went blind and
another bit of a health issue mrs woods
hasn't been able to see their display
since she went blind 10 years ago due to
diabetes i love
sitting
at the chair giving out candy canes but
also
hearing the kids
laughter the excitement that sort of
makes it christmas to me because i can't
see them so just hearing them philip
woods uses his annual four-week holiday
to light up their home and celebrate we
don't have any kids of our own i love
christmas christmas is one of my
greatest times of the year we don't have
family up here
not immediate family so
this is our kids this is our community
mrs woods enjoys helping to design the
display he just takes me around and
tells me where this and that is and i
have a feel and sometimes uh maybe that
doesn't belong there maybe it sort of
belongs here and
yeah we sort of compromise
teamwork creating something the whole
community can enjoy he's been a rock for
me
in everything
and i'm just
amazed
at what he can actually do
he's the best husband ever a true labor
of love madison snow abc news kalgoorlie
that is the latest from abc regional
news for now you can keep up to date
with all the latest on the news channel
online and on abc radio i'm miriam
korowa thank you for coming
[Music]
quite serious situation that we're
worried about stay connected with the
abc listen app get the latest local news
and updates from your region we're going
to stay with you so that you're well
informed download the abc listen app and
stay connected
whenever you want wherever you are know
the story with abc news the most trusted
news source get breaking news updates
with live notifications plus the latest
news from australia and around the world
if the situation deteriorates the hard
border comes back go to
news.abc.net.edu or download the news
app
welcome to oneplus one i'm stan grant
starting monday
a life-changing moment i really lost
myself felt like a real failure and the
road to acceptance sometimes you just
need to ride the wave how did you great
question she's been with me and allowed
me to find myself stan grant's one plus
one monday abc and eye view when you
strip away the cultural
non-inclusiveness of christmas
what are we left with a
non-denominational pagan special all
washed out under the shade of a cooler
bar cask mad as hell pagan holiday
special sunday december 20 abc and iview
watch abc news live stream anywhere
anytime on abc iview keep up to date
with the latest breaking stories from
around the corner and across the globe
and you can catch up on all your
favorite abc news and current affairs
programs head to abc eye view and live
stream abc news now
know the tradition cultural bird brings
the land back to life know the reason
the most important thing to me as a
gundangara person is protecting country
for future generations know the
languages reporting from our in the
country lara kia country reporting from
ghana country reporting from pinematic
from larakia country i'm on your toyota
country from nepoluna lutrowita for abc
news know the meaning i in this country
this country is me know the story with
abc news
today heavy rain damaging winds and
dangerous surface severe weather warning
is issued for parts of new south wales
and queensland there's a lot of rain
that we've seen recent in the last 24
hours and a lot to come
[Music]
also ahead queensland drops its hard
border allowing visitors from south
australia and new zealand
victoria records its first confirmed
covid cases since the hotel quarantine
revamp
detecting positive cases actually
demonstrates that the system is working
and it's doing what it's supposed to do
[Music]
and breaking down barriers the new
program aiming to rebuild trust between
police and first nations people
hello and welcome to abc news i'm miriam
coral significant rain is forecast for
southeastern queensland and northern new
south wales with the worst of the
conditions expected tomorrow the new
south wales mid north coast and northern
rivers areas received heavy rain
overnight karen thomas reports from port
macquarie on the new south wales mid
north coast
the real concern for the moment at least
is southwest of coffs harbour along the
bellinger river catchment so the bureau
has issued a minor flood warning for
that catchment that's expected to impact
later today and the towns that are going
to be affected uh bellingen and thora
there's a chance of some minor flooding
there at around six o'clock tonight and
the ses has said that that could see
some residents isolated as bridges are
closed and it could also see some
inundation of low-lying farmland now
there is more rain expected over the
coming days and as that continues the
bureau is also warning of the chance of
a moderate to major flooding event for
that same catchment the bellinger into
monday and tuesday as far as formal
flood warnings go it's just the
bellinger catchment at the moment but
from where i am here in port macquarie
right up north to the tweed there's a
flood watch that's current at the moment
for the river catchments and that's
really just an early warning for people
particularly if they're living and
working along rivers and streams just to
keep a really close eye on what's
happening and the information that the
bureau is putting out and there's also
warnings uh for just some pretty bad
weather into this afternoon it's for
heavy rain damaging winds abnormally
high tides and damaging surf and the
bureau has also said that there's a
chance of coastal erosion from about the
ballina area north
okay karen um so much rain already
falling can you just take us through how
much
has been falling already and we expect
that rain to continue and i note as well
that um we also have high tides at the
moment
yeah that's right so this is the uh the
spring tide kind of time they call it
which means that the high tides may be
higher than they normally are so that
can bring uh some low some inundation of
low-lying areas made worse of course by
this predicted rainfall so just some
figures from what we've had in the 24
hours to 9am this morning bowerville 200
millimeters 130 to 150 millimeters at
various locations around coffs harbour
150 to 160 millimeters in the bellinger
catchment which is where i mentioned
there's that minor flood warning at the
moment and for the brunswick catchment
and also lenox head around 120
millimeters until in the 24 hours until
9am this morning and as we've heard
there is more rain coming the bureau
said earlier today that from kempsey
north it could be 50 to 80 millimeters
fall anywhere north of that kempsey area
on the the new south wales mid north
coast and northern rivers
karen with so much water moving through
the river systems there what's been the
message from the state emergency service
the message from the ses is pretty
simple if you if your home is safe and
you don't have a pressing region to
leave your home that's probably the best
place that you can be at the moment
let's hear a little bit from the ses now
a lot of rain that we've seen recent in
the last 24 hours and a lot to come
um our ses units on the ground are
proactively working with their local
communities to make sure they're aware
of the aware of the the risks and we're
really urging uh communities to uh to
stay vigilant keep an eye in an area out
on your local
weather forecast and heed any advice
that you may be given
so the ses has stationed uh some flood
rescue crews up and down the coast so
far they haven't been needed which is
good news and the ses is obviously
hoping that they won't be needed the
message that we always hear during
events like this and it's the same this
time around don't walk ride or drive
through flood waters don't enter them at
all
is really the message there could be you
know debris under these uh flood waters
that you just can't see in terms of
bridges you don't know if the bridge is
still structurally sound there's been
many cases where bridges are washed away
but you just can't tell from looking at
it and there's also the added kind of
impact here at the moment we're 12
months on from some quite devastating
bushfires that had a really big impact
on forested areas which are now getting
rain and it's washing debris into the
river system so for boaties as well
they're being told
you know don't head out onto the rivers
today because you just don't know what
lies beneath the surface and there's
also concerns about tourists in the
region some areas are already on school
holidays and with borders opening up
people are pretty keen to travel to some
of our beautiful areas along the
mid-north coast and northern rivers here
but you know if you're in an area that
you don't know the ses is really asking
you to keep a very close eye on what's
going on and make sure you're as
informed as possible
residents in townsville in north
queensland have been told to immediately
restrict their water use a pipeline
which supplies water to the city has
ruptured and supply is critically low
all residents and business owners should
immediately limit water use to drinking
water and toilets only the broken pipe
has been removed and work is now
underway to install the new section of
pipe it's expected to take at least 24
hours to fully recharge the water system
once the pipe is repaired and pumping
has restarted
most state and territory borders in
australia are open again with travelers
from south australia now allowed back
into queensland some jurisdictions
require pre-registration for entry mask
wearing and venue check-ins while others
are more relaxed
the only domestic hard border that
remains is between western australia and
south australia new zealanders are also
being welcomed into queensland today
victoria has recorded its first
confirmed covert cases in international
travelers since the revamped hotel
quarantine program resumed this week
five cases were detected in quarantine
but for a 43rd day in a row there have
been no new locally acquired cases more
than eight thousand seven hundred people
were tested across the state yesterday
detecting positive cases actually
demonstrates that the system is working
and it's doing what it's supposed to do
and while obviously we'd all prefer that
there were no active cases
we're confident that the changes made to
strengthen the program
will ensure that we manage this in a way
that keeps return travelers
the workers caring for them and the
victorian community as safe as possible
new south wales government's dine and
discover voucher scheme has been delayed
until early 2021. the trial was supposed
to start in december but with many
restaurants already booked out for the
festive season the government has
decided the stimulus program will have a
greater impact in the new year all
residents will be eligible for 100 worth
of vouchers to support local businesses
overseas now the us supreme court has
dismissed president donald trump's bid
to overturn the election a lawsuit filed
by texas's attorney general sought to
throw out voting results in four pivotal
states the justices refused to let texas
file the lawsuit challenging joe biden's
wins in pennsylvania georgia michigan
and wisconsin the order clears those
states to cast their votes for mr biden
in the electoral college next week
meanwhile the countdown is on for the
country's first coveted vaccine to win
approval for public use the health
regulator is said to be accelerating its
paperwork to officially approve the fisa
vaccine greg jennett has been following
developments from washington
the level of anticipation in large
sections of the country for the arrival
of a vaccine is immense particularly
among governors and mayors but evidently
also in the white house itself because
there are numerous reports floating
around today about pressure that has
been applied to the health regulator the
food and drug administration and
principally its boss the commissioner dr
stephen hahn to get on and approve this
in very short order indeed so we might
work through some of the steps in the
chain there let's start with donald
trump himself when we're talking about
applying pressure he did it publicly and
transparently via twitter
where he wrote a few hours ago of the
fda that it's bureaucratic and he said
it's still a big old slow turtle get the
damn vaccines out now dr hahn only to
add stop playing games and start saving
lives then if you wind forward a few
hours reports began to emerge in the
washington post about a conversation
between the white house chief of staff
mark meadows and
dr hahn and this is where the suggestion
was made you must get this approval done
within the next few hours now if you
don't said the reports uh mark meadows
was suggesting that dr hans stephen hahn
mayers will go ahead and lodge his
resignation now he has issued a
statement the commissioner of the fda
describing some of these accounts of the
conversation as quote untrue
representations of it although he did
acknowledge that he was quote encouraged
to work expeditiously
and the entire fda for that matter
towards the approval of this pfizer
vaccine so that's where we find
ourselves right now it could be imminent
there are some processes to go through
here it's not just the issuing of a
media release but in any event we're
watching our clocks and wondering
whether it does come this evening local
time or whether final approval comes
tomorrow in any case it's a question of
when not if any longer
the secretary general of the united
nations has criticized the global
response to the pandemic antonio
gutierrez warns that the role out of
vaccines should not suffer the same
disjointed response as cases continue to
surge speaking at an online event mr
gutierrez says solidarity in governance
is now a moral imperative
from the start the world's organization
provided factual information and
scientific guidance that should have
been the basis for coordinated global
action
but response has been fragmented and
chaotic with countries regions and even
cities competing against each other for
essential supplies and frontline workers
we cannot let the same thing happen for
access to new coveted 19 vaccines which
must be a global public good
in the u.s a car has crashed into a
crowd of protesters in new york city
police say multiple people are injured
but none appear to have life-threatening
injuries it's unclear how many people
were taken to hospital
the prime minister scott morrison has
told a virtual forum of pacific island
leaders australia is committed to
achieving net zero emissions as soon as
possible he's told the virtual meeting
he's confident australia will be able to
meet paris agreement emissions targets
without using carryover credits
australia has promised to cut its 2005
emission levels by up to 28
before 2030.
global emissions reductions we know are
essential for our blue pacific
our commitment to the paris agreement
has never wavered we've made it
we're reducing emissions
through practical clean energy
technology australia is very confident
that we will now achieve our 2030 target
without the need to draw on our
carryover credits that australians
earned from overachieving on our kyoto
era commitments
pressure is building on the coalition to
set a clear time frame for the target
with australia excluded from the list of
speakers at a un-led climate summit this
weekend opposition climate change
spokesman mark butler has accused the
prime minister of being out of step
globally on emissions reductions
last night at the pacific islands forum
he expected some sort of award or
commendation for giving a heavily
qualified suggestion that he might not
after all try to cheat the system by
using kyoto carryover credits scott
morrison's attempt this week to pivot on
climate change has been shown to be all
spin and no substance and the rest of
the world is seeing right through that
spin
his pig-headed refusal to refuse to
commit to net zero emissions will see
australia continue to be isolated
globally and will come at a huge cost to
australians in lost jobs and lost
investment
[Music]
[Applause]
it's been a year since the first case of
coronavirus was detected in wuhan china
kovid 19 has since tested and stretched
health systems and economies the world
over its exploited weaknesses in
infrastructure created political
division and taken a toll on the most
vulnerable groups like the elderly and
the disadvantaged professor sharon lewin
an infectious diseases expert and the
director of the doherty institute says
our health system has improved
i think we've also realised the
vulnerability in certain parts of our
workforce casual the casual workforce
we've realized the importance of our
aged care workers and how many of them
were working in multiple places we've
learned the importance and difficulty of
controlling something like coronavirus
we need really good systems to prevent
infections in healthcare settings so we
have learnt an enormous amount both
about the virus
about our own behaviors and about our
health systems to strengthen them for
future similar events we've learned that
community matters that what we do has an
impact on all the people around us and i
think in australia we've just responded
as community members incredibly well you
may not get benefit from wearing a mask
but you're going to benefit the whole
population so i think we've learned that
our community matters and each of us
plays a role in our community
i think we've learned that political
leadership matters really strong
consistent messages from our political
leaders in public health is just
absolutely essential and i think we've
really learned that science matters that
the expert advice that our government
and many governments around the world
have had from our scientists has really
influenced the response
um so you know we we won't be the same
after this pandemic and also i think the
last thing is we need to always be
prepared we take it for granted many
people think infectious diseases have
gone away they haven't gone away it's a
whole lot of reasons why we might see
more infectious diseases in the future
and we need better systems and strong
systems going forward
with the world transitioning to a green
global economy australia has been warned
to be better prepared or risk leaving
thousands of people out of work with few
prospects it comes as leaders from
across the world joined virtual talks
over how to manage a shift of green
energy and address the threat presented
by climate change with the australian
fossil fuel sector expressing fears over
mass unemployment joe bruvitz from the
institute for sustainable futures says
the market for our coal exports will
shrink
that demand is going to
disappear eventually so whether it's
because renewables are actually cheaper
than coal or whether it's just because
of climate targets and countries aren't
going to be importing our coal when they
can't even burn their own
so we need to start planning for that
transition and we need to do the
industrial diversification in the coal
areas to really use the skills that are
there
a grassroots approach to rebuilding
trust between police and first nations
people in western australia's gold
fields appears to be making a difference
community elders are playing a key role
in making sure the program takes a
long-term approach to improving
relationships with police
these kugati kids are having some fun
but it's not always fun when they meet
the police to build trust elders and
children have come up with a new way to
improve their relationship with those
sworn to protect them we ran a
picnic for members of the community that
wanted to come and 52
indigenous family members parents and
children and grandparents came out on
country with us for the day and they
co-designed the program the result a
program called another way indigenous
role models jump on a bus with kids in
the community for an excursion to learn
about laws culture and ways to change
their community for the better
they also visit the local police station
the kids need to know that the place the
police station's here can come in
whatever you want just for the on or
just have a chat to ask any sort of
advice the program is already delivering
some inspiring ideas we would like to
start a business called kids on country
tour guides so people around
the bush youth leaders working with
local children say the program is
proving transformational it's breaking
down barriers and old stigmas a lot of
indigenous youth you know growing up
they have like a fear instilled in them
i still have it myself actually um but
having that broken just by these little
conversations that we're having with
officer gary and those little steps of
walking into the police station and
saying you know we're looking into the
information of driver's license that's
all those little seeds you could say
just over three percent of people living
in australia are indigenous but they
make up over 25 of the adult prison
population and over 50 percent of
juveniles in prison
it's hoped improving the relationship
with police through programs like
netherway will not only help turn this
around but actually make communities
like ulgardi safer for these children
breaking them relations between
authorities has been
a forever issue and it could well be the
case for many years to come it's about
chipping away at those barriers at a
local level you know i don't think that
this is going to change things over a
weekend i think that these sorts of
ideas have got to happen over a long
period of time we're all human so it's
just working together in a positive way
i think it could benefit a lot of
communities with a positive approach
this program will continue to grow along
with these children denishi dice abc
news kulgati
the fallout from covert restrictions
will be the subject of a new stage show
by a group of young south australians
who had their daily routines severely
disrupted
lolli jar circus may not be a household
name but it's making a major difference
to disadvantaged younger generations
this is a different kind of lolly jar
kids love getting their hands into it's
fun anyone can participate you can be
yourself and no one's going to judge you
the kids will get their lolly jar
clothes ready at the end of their bed at
the beginning of the week and every
morning so is it lolita day is it lovely
today we can't wait lolija circus works
with anyone including those with
physical or intellectual disabilities
and others who are at risk fitting
lollies of different shapes sizes colors
and tastes into the jar
for seven years the circus has offered
its weekly classes and stage shows
they make friends which is a really
big thing for a lot of the people who
come here uh often we've been told in
tears by parents that it's the first
time they've ever had a friend like
ten-year-old charlotte there's one
friend that likes to like have like high
fives
and they're better just right i just
talk to them and stuff she
has social problems at school
and when she comes here she just enjoys
it immensely because everyone's the same
here so no one's picking on anyone
lolly jazz poster boy is 14 year old
archer who had no spatial awareness and
used to run into walls and couldn't sit
for two minutes
then he discovered lollijar
so he's gone from someone who really had
trouble with balance and and supporting
his own body weight to
now he can do all these things
[Music]
his trampoline work is just one of his
many specialties progress reflected in
many at the circus
parents reported seeing growth across
physical and social and emotional
elements within their kids
when the pandemic hit that growth came
to a worrying four-month halt young
people with autism thrive on routine and
um when that's disrupted it's really
stressful for them it's very distressing
but now they're back with funding to
develop a new show bug off which will
focus on how losing their weekly circus
fix had such an impact on those who need
day-to-day routines
matthew smith abc news adelaide
now time for sport with jared coote
[Music]
australia's qriket selectors have been
presented with another headache
australian test hopeful cameron green is
in doubt for next week's opening match
against india after
a concussion scare during australia a's
tour match against india at the scg the
young west australian was bowling to
indian talented jasper bumra when he was
struck in the face the all-rounder was
able to walk off the field but was
substituted and taken from the ground
for treatment australia was dismissed
for 108 in the first innings on the
opening day finishing 86 runs behind the
tourist total of 194.
the melbourne stars eased to victory in
their big bash league opener overnights
the stars were too strong for the
brisbane heat winning by six wickets in
canberra sending to bat the heat would
dismiss for just 125 in the twentieth
over with nathan at culture nile
starring with four wickets the stars
chased down the target with more than
two overs to spare with skipper glenn
maxwell top scoring with 46 runs of just
26 balls melbourne has no time to
celebrate they'll take on the sydney
thunder this afternoon
and practices wrapped up at the abu
dhabi grand prix battery bottas was the
fastest in the final practice session of
the day bottas finished just ahead of
his mercedes teammate lewis hamilton who
is returning to the track after
contracting coronavirus max verstappen
was third fastest with australia's
daniel ricardo coming in ninth kimi
raikkonen walked away unharmed after his
engine caught on fire late
in the session earlier in the day
michael schumacher's son mick schumacher
took part in his maiden formula one
session coming in 18th fastest for hus
west ham have fought back from a goal
down to defeat leeds united 2-1 in the
premier league this morning the hammers
gave away an early penalty just six
minutes into the match the visitors
saved the initial spot kick but the
goalkeeper didn't have a foot on the
goal line so leads were awarded a second
attempt which they eventually converted
now west ham quickly levelled the score
from there through thomas so check
angelo ogbonner then scored the winner
in the 80th minute to move west ham up
to fifth on the ladder
there was no surprises in the wnbl last
night the townsville fire boosted its
finals hopes with a 95-66 victory over
the adelaide lightning lauren nicholson
top scored for the fine with 21 points
as they maintained fourth spots while
the lightning remain in fifth three wins
behind the melbourne boomers remain on
track for a top two spot after they down
the winless bendigo spirit 91-70 stella
beck starred with 17 points as the
boomers kept in contact with the south
side flyers and the canberra capitals on
the ladder
australian boxing's rising star brocket
javascripted his dominance last night
with an impressive fifth round knockout
victory over mark schliebes in canberra
jarvis who is trained by hall of famer
jeff fennick is undefeated after 18
fights the 23 year old poured on the
punches from close range and kept sleeps
against the ropes for the majority of
the fight the victory saw jarvis claim
the ibf pan pacific and wbo global
featherweight belts
[Music]
on the satellite image a low pressure
system over central wa is causing strong
winds heavy rain and storms multiple
troughs are triggering rain and storms
in other parts of wa the nt queensland
northeastern new south wales and western
south australia a high is keeping
western new south wales victoria and
tasmania mostly dry looking around the
country for today showers across
queensland a hot day for the state's
east even hotter in the west for new
south wales in the act
showers in the east mostly sunny clear
day for the state's west windy on the
alps
sunny warm day for most of victoria
cloudy in the northwest
a warm day for southwestern tasmania
clearing fog in the southeast and a cool
sunny day for the north
hot but cloudy for southeast and central
south australia showers and storms for
the west windy and hot in the north a
mostly sunny and warm day for southern
wa wind easing in the northwest a hot
day with showers and storms in the
state's northeast
hot day for the nt showers and storms in
the north west and interior isolated
showers and mild conditions in the south
now to tomorrow's forecast for the
capitals heavy rain in brisbane possible
showers for sydney and perth cloudy day
for canberra warm mostly sunny for
melbourne hobart and adelaide a possible
storm for darwin
that is latest from abc news remember
you can keep up to date at
news.abc.net.you
and on abc eye view
i'm miriam coral i thank you for your
company
[Music]
[Applause]
this week on news breakfast wonder woman
herself gal gadot will tell us about her
latest installment of the superhero
franchise and tis the season for scams
unfortunately but we'll tell you how to
spot them so you don't end up falling
for a christmas fraud see you then
for those of you who haven't thrown out
your 2020 bingo cards did you have this
one in a year where everything has been
unexpected join us to make sense of it
all when boris johnson is on the phone
and saying right now i'm sorry to bring
this up we listen to the experts when it
comes to the pandemic but we're not
listening to the experts when it comes
to climate change this is the difficult
thing for women middle age we have
hugged them to look forward to proud
millennial right here i already grew all
this grace i'm just gonna hang here the
drum weeknights at 6 on abc and iview
whenever you want wherever you are know
the story with abc news the most trusted
news source get breaking news updates
with live notifications plus the latest
news from australia and around the world
if the situation deteriorates the hard
border comes back go to
news.abc.net.edu or download the news
app
grandstand summer of cricket continues
live and ad free
as
live on abc radio and the abc listen app
2020 is almost over and what a year it's
been costa lends a hand to a very
special gardener if i hadn't had the
garden maybe i wouldn't have lived or a
hundred get crafty this christmas kids
will love making them and it's a great
activity for family and friends and look
at these luscious lockdown gardens it's
just so rewarding having the ability to
watch life and nature just grow around
you gardening australia friday on abc
and iview
[Music]
is
[Applause]
again
[Music]
welcome back to another episode of
foreign correspondent retrospective a
special series on the extraordinary rise
of china over the past decade as
witnessed by our correspondents
was china opened up to world trade it
was perhaps inevitable that one unwanted
product illicit drugs would make an
insidious return
opium played a devastating role in
china's history culminating in the 19th
century opium wars with the colonial
powers
it wasn't until the 1950s that mao's
communists had effectively eradicated
cultivation and use
but with a fifth of the world's
population and a cached up middle class
in search of a good time opium and
heroin trafficking rebounded along with
a new product methamphetamine or ice
in 2013 china correspondent stephen
mcdonnell ventured into the heart of the
tear away trade down on china's border
with myanmar then headed to the super
city of shanghai where a new generation
of party people were driving a massive
new drug market
[Music]
this is remote dramatic territory
a river forming part of a border that
runs for thousands of kilometers between
china and its emerging neighbor myanmar
what we used to call burma
you might expect large fences and guards
on patrol
but here the official borders of
countries mean little to people who've
traveled and intermingled for centuries
well this is a pretty porous border as
you can see there are lots of people
moving
back and forth across the river we've
just walked down here jumped on the
first boat there was
paid the guy come along and what
we are
now i'm in burma
there's a brisk trade here myanmar has
been opening up
and china has an ever-growing affluence
yet to buy chinese goods poor burmese
farmers need money and in order to get
money some are prepared to transport a
very dangerous cargo to the north
it's not an official in sight the
potential to ferry illegal drugs across
points like this is clearly substantial
[Applause]
none of the people here speak chinese so
i can't
ask them how busy it is down here
normally but it seems like it's just
boat after boat coming through and the
trucks
are bringing goods from burma across to
china and also back in the other
direction
[Music]
the home of the golden triangle myanmar
has long been a major source of the
world's heroine
now on top of that there are new drugs
coming out of here and via china they'll
end up as far away as australia
so we've come here to follow the drugs
and to gauge the size of a problem
considered so serious it's recently led
to joint operations by australian and
chinese police
[Music]
former police officer professor wu jung
is now one of china's foremost experts
on the drug trade
we ask him if myanmar's increased ice
production
is in
um
yunnan province is a lush green corner
of china
its remote location has spared at the
excesses of development
[Music]
here you can find the bustling border
town of rayleigh
part of it has been given special
economic zone status to try and boost
commerce between china and myanmar
here burmese workers can be seen in
droves looking for work in local
factories
others come to do business
there are plenty of visitors with all
the right paperwork
but countless numbers without
the border fence in the middle of town
is dotted with large holes
so we sit across from one of these
illegal entry points and watch
through they come one after another
some pause first to check
others just race through
this is only 100 meters from the main
official entry point
and in broad daylight
they cross
and they cross
we decide to approach the young men on
the myanmar side of the border for a
chat and speak to them through a
translator
but
it seems they want to defend the
credibility of this particular illegal
entrance to china
[Music]
a few hundred daily crossings would be
an underestimation
dozens come through in just the short
time we're here
[Music]
if drug trafficking is skyrocketing as
suspected then it must hit these border
communities first as it winds its way
north
so we go looking for someone who knows
the local trade
we meet a young man who's prepared to
talk about the drug situation in
rayleigh on condition of anonymity
[Music]
foreign
he tells us that those using drugs
regularly in the town vary from chinese
to burmese
some are students some are business
people
[Music]
how my dopant should be
my duties uh
[Music]
he guides us through rayleigh down this
town small vibrant streets to a
particular little corner
and soon after we arrive the customers
are turning up
this man walks across the street to a
doorway which will be very busy tonight
he indicates the quantity
and in front of a small child he hands
over cash in exchange for drugs
[Music]
then he goes off to find somewhere safe
to take them
[Music]
this is a humming part of town and many
will go through this doorway
we can't see what's going on inside but
there's plenty of movement in the street
a man in green waits outside
eventually a woman in white emerges and
approaches him
again it's money going one way and drugs
the other
she counts his change and then hands it
over
as soon as the coast is clear he walks
away
given the ease with which we've spotted
these transactions it's hard to imagine
that the local authorities are not fully
aware of this situation
the man in green likes what he's seen so
he comes back for more
these are only small purchases but
chinese police statistics cast them in a
much bigger light
[Music]
nearby
burmese poppy cultivation was up
33.8
last year the equivalent of 60 tons of
heroin
in 2012 local yunnan police seized nine
tons of ice coming out of myanmar 26
more than the year before
and the deals keep coming
[Music]
in full public view the drugs are
prepared
the preferred method of consumption here
is smoking even for heroin and
methamphetamine
[Music]
yet increasingly in what was once a
heroin zone this is now becoming an ice
tower
[Music]
the roads out of raleigh are all heading
north
and for drugs being smuggled into china
there's a well-trodden path
for most the first stop is the regional
capital where onward distribution will
be organized
i'm here at the kunming narcotics bureau
there are more than 160 police here
apparently this is the largest drug
squad in china and we've been invited
here to come and have a chat
[Music]
and to give us an idea of how busy
they've been he shows us some of the
drugs police have confiscated lately
yep
[Music]
we see ketamine also known as special k
and a pillow case of morphine
there's heroin cut into blocks for
convenient concealed